README.md, before:

# Soul Base Studio Booking App

This app will allow users to book classes for this pilates/dance studio.


# User Experience (UX)

## User Stories:
**Planning of user stories completed in Google sheets:
[Google sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13gqPIhIq3JW8bj4yZG445GtfKLTm_jc08hKC8qQwt5g/edit?usp=sharing)

**User Stories within Projects on GitHub Repository:
[Soul Base User Story Project](https://github.com/users/morganoleary/projects/4/views/1)

## Design:

## Wireframes:
[Figma wireframe](https://www.figma.com/file/XGDgyLpX0MTIs4UjGJEWSk/Studio-Booking-Site?type=design&node-id=0%3A1&mode=design&t=AFRhMGkel6QpeZO6-1)

## ERD:
[LucidChart ERD](https://lucid.app/lucidchart/e9b3c27f-07d4-4026-b261-0147bd63587b/edit?viewport_loc=-990%2C-136%2C2368%2C1186%2C0_0&invitationId=inv_e64b0370-8313-4ba3-ae26-527c2fb98352)

# Existing Features

## Future Features

# Testing

## Validator Testing:

## Manual Testing:

## Automated Testing:

## Bugs/Unfixed Bugs:
- Fixed: When creating my apps, I decided I needed to separate my models for member details from the class details and booking models in a separate app. I changed the name of my original 'book' app to 'member' as this already contained my Member and MemberLogin models that had been migrated to the database and deployed on Heroku. I followed the steps and successfully changed the name of the app by utilizing the [django-rename-app](https://github.com/odwyersoftware/django-rename-app?tab=readme-ov-file).
- Fixed: When implementing Django signals into the "member" app when trying to create a user profile for each user that signs up, I received the following error: django.core.exceptions.ImproperlyConfigured: Application labels aren't unique, duplicates: member . After researching, I was able to fix the problem my removing the 'member' in INSTALLED_APPS of the Settings file. This was found using [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24319558/how-to-resolve-django-core-exceptions-improperlyconfigured-application-labels).

# Deployment

## Steps taken to deploy on Heroku:
Set up the workspace:
1. Install gunicorn in workspace for Heroku deployment
2. Add to requirements.txt and create Procfile
3. In settings.py set DEBUG = False
4. Git add, commit and push changes to GitHub
Deploy on Heroku:
5. Create the app on Heroku and connect to GitHub project
6. Set the Config Vars in the "Settings" Tab
7. Navigate to the "Deploy" tab and scroll down to click on "Deploy Branch" in the "Manual deploy" section

## Fork Repository

## Clone Repository

# Credits
- Student support on Slack was very helpful setting up database configurations in the settings.py file.
- [Creating a Database](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:CodeInstitute+FSD101_WTS+2023_Q3/courseware/56a2da0940b4411d8a38c2b093a22c60/ed8c75412c784bbba17988f7efbe037b/?child=first) content in the "I Think Therefore I Blog" walkthrough was utilized to create the database. 
- From the 'I think therefore I blog' walkthrough project, [Django Walkthrough Project / Setting up the base template](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:CodeInstitute+FSD101_WTS+2023_Q3/courseware/56a2da0940b4411d8a38c2b093a22c60/c592ed45498e440587b764e29891b2fc/?child=first) was helpful when creating the base template.
- [Django Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/)
- From the 'I think therefore I blog' walkthrough project, [Deployment with static files](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:CodeInstitute+FSD101_WTS+2023_Q3/courseware/56a2da0940b4411d8a38c2b093a22c60/c592ed45498e440587b764e29891b2fc/?child=first) was utilized to ensure successful deployment after creating static files.
- From the 'I think therefore I blog' walkthrough project, [Django AllAuth Authentication](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:CodeInstitute+FSD101_WTS+2023_Q3/courseware/56a2da0940b4411d8a38c2b093a22c60/8354ed2193944d4ea9aa167849113da7/) and [Django Documentation](https://docs.allauth.org/en/latest/installation/quickstart.html) were used to install and wire up Django AllAuth. 
- [Django debug log](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/logging/#id5) was provided by tutor support to assist with finding specific issues in code.
- [Django Views URL Names](https://docs.allauth.org/en/latest/account/views.html#login) were found here, with the help of tutor support, to reference Django account files within custom templates.
- Understanding the Django User Model was found [here](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/contrib/auth/#django.contrib.auth.models.User).
- The use of Django signals, specifically the 'post_save' signal was implemented with the idea from [Medium.com](https://medium.com/@abdullafajal/automating-user-profile-creation-with-default-data-using-django-signals-50abef9ce529) and assistance from [Django Signal Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/signals/).
- Understanding Django Forms was referenced using [this documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/forms/) as well as from [creating model forms documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/forms/modelforms/). Implementing cleaned_data was learned through [Django documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/forms/validation/#:~:text=The%20clean()%20method%20on,and%20that%20error%20is%20raised.).
- Understanding the use of super() and __init __ came from [hubspot](https://blog.hubspot.com/website/python-super), [stack overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/576169/understanding-python-super-with-init-methods) and [sentry](https://sentry.io/answers/super-and-init-in-python/#:~:text=__init__%20with%20Product,dependency%20injection%20and%20multiple%20inheritance.&text=This%20is%20equivalent%20to%20calling%20super()%20in%20Python%203.).
- Customizing the User profile in the admin dashboard was learned from [Customizing authentication in Django](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/customizing/).
- Implementing Bootstrap's pop-up modal came from this [Bootstrap Components Documentation](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/components/modal/).

### Content
Soul Base Pilates Studio - My sister's pilates studio based in Iowa, USA.

### Technologies Used
LucidChart = ERD
Figma = Wireframes
Django = Framework
HTML = mark up
CSS = styling
[Bootstrap 4.6](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/getting-started/download/) = styling
Python
JavaScript
VS Code = IDE (Integrated Development Environment)
Heroku = Deployment
GitHub = store project
Git = version control
[PostgresSQL from Code Institute](https://dbs.ci-dbs.net/) = Production database 
[TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com/) used to compress images
[Favicon generator](https://gauger.io/fonticon/)

### Media & Layout

## Acknowledgements

Commit message:

Add date and time input to booking form

README.md, after:

# Soul Base Studio Booking App

This app will allow users to book classes for this pilates/dance studio.


# User Experience (UX)

## User Stories:
**Planning of user stories completed in Google sheets:
[Google sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13gqPIhIq3JW8bj4yZG445GtfKLTm_jc08hKC8qQwt5g/edit?usp=sharing)

**User Stories within Projects on GitHub Repository:
[Soul Base User Story Project](https://github.com/users/morganoleary/projects/4/views/1)

## Design:

## Wireframes:
[Figma wireframe](https://www.figma.com/file/XGDgyLpX0MTIs4UjGJEWSk/Studio-Booking-Site?type=design&node-id=0%3A1&mode=design&t=AFRhMGkel6QpeZO6-1)

## ERD:
[LucidChart ERD](https://lucid.app/lucidchart/e9b3c27f-07d4-4026-b261-0147bd63587b/edit?viewport_loc=-990%2C-136%2C2368%2C1186%2C0_0&invitationId=inv_e64b0370-8313-4ba3-ae26-527c2fb98352)

# Existing Features

## Future Features

# Testing

## Validator Testing:

## Manual Testing:

## Automated Testing:

## Bugs/Unfixed Bugs:
- Fixed: When creating my apps, I decided I needed to separate my models for member details from the class details and booking models in a separate app. I changed the name of my original 'book' app to 'member' as this already contained my Member and MemberLogin models that had been migrated to the database and deployed on Heroku. I followed the steps and successfully changed the name of the app by utilizing the [django-rename-app](https://github.com/odwyersoftware/django-rename-app?tab=readme-ov-file).
- Fixed: When implementing Django signals into the "member" app when trying to create a user profile for each user that signs up, I received the following error: django.core.exceptions.ImproperlyConfigured: Application labels aren't unique, duplicates: member . After researching, I was able to fix the problem my removing the 'member' in INSTALLED_APPS of the Settings file. This was found using [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24319558/how-to-resolve-django-core-exceptions-improperlyconfigured-application-labels).

# Deployment

## Steps taken to deploy on Heroku:
Set up the workspace:
1. Install gunicorn in workspace for Heroku deployment
2. Add to requirements.txt and create Procfile
3. In settings.py set DEBUG = False
4. Git add, commit and push changes to GitHub
Deploy on Heroku:
5. Create the app on Heroku and connect to GitHub project
6. Set the Config Vars in the "Settings" Tab
7. Navigate to the "Deploy" tab and scroll down to click on "Deploy Branch" in the "Manual deploy" section

## Fork Repository

## Clone Repository

# Credits
- Student support on Slack was very helpful setting up database configurations in the settings.py file.
- [Creating a Database](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:CodeInstitute+FSD101_WTS+2023_Q3/courseware/56a2da0940b4411d8a38c2b093a22c60/ed8c75412c784bbba17988f7efbe037b/?child=first) content in the "I Think Therefore I Blog" walkthrough was utilized to create the database. 
- From the 'I think therefore I blog' walkthrough project, [Django Walkthrough Project / Setting up the base template](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:CodeInstitute+FSD101_WTS+2023_Q3/courseware/56a2da0940b4411d8a38c2b093a22c60/c592ed45498e440587b764e29891b2fc/?child=first) was helpful when creating the base template.
- [Django Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/)
- From the 'I think therefore I blog' walkthrough project, [Deployment with static files](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:CodeInstitute+FSD101_WTS+2023_Q3/courseware/56a2da0940b4411d8a38c2b093a22c60/c592ed45498e440587b764e29891b2fc/?child=first) was utilized to ensure successful deployment after creating static files.
- From the 'I think therefore I blog' walkthrough project, [Django AllAuth Authentication](https://learn.codeinstitute.net/courses/course-v1:CodeInstitute+FSD101_WTS+2023_Q3/courseware/56a2da0940b4411d8a38c2b093a22c60/8354ed2193944d4ea9aa167849113da7/) and [Django Documentation](https://docs.allauth.org/en/latest/installation/quickstart.html) were used to install and wire up Django AllAuth. 
- [Django debug log](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/logging/#id5) was provided by tutor support to assist with finding specific issues in code.
- [Django Views URL Names](https://docs.allauth.org/en/latest/account/views.html#login) were found here, with the help of tutor support, to reference Django account files within custom templates.
- Understanding the Django User Model was found [here](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/contrib/auth/#django.contrib.auth.models.User).
- The use of Django signals, specifically the 'post_save' signal was implemented with the idea from [Medium.com](https://medium.com/@abdullafajal/automating-user-profile-creation-with-default-data-using-django-signals-50abef9ce529) and assistance from [Django Signal Documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/signals/).
- Understanding Django Forms was referenced using [this documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/forms/) as well as from [creating model forms documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/forms/modelforms/). Implementing cleaned_data was learned through [Django documentation](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/ref/forms/validation/#:~:text=The%20clean()%20method%20on,and%20that%20error%20is%20raised.).
- Understanding the use of super() and __init __ came from [hubspot](https://blog.hubspot.com/website/python-super), [stack overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/576169/understanding-python-super-with-init-methods) and [sentry](https://sentry.io/answers/super-and-init-in-python/#:~:text=__init__%20with%20Product,dependency%20injection%20and%20multiple%20inheritance.&text=This%20is%20equivalent%20to%20calling%20super()%20in%20Python%203.).
- Customizing the User profile in the admin dashboard was learned from [Customizing authentication in Django](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/topics/auth/customizing/).
- Implementing Bootstrap's pop-up modal came from this [Bootstrap Components Documentation](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/components/modal/).
- The ideaology of implementing the booking form's DateTimePicker came from [Django-Bootstrap-Datepicker-Plus](https://django-bootstrap-datepicker-plus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/customization.html). This wasn't rendering properly, so with the help of [this example](https://github.com/GJSayers/hobo-hatch-b2b/blob/main/checkout/forms.py) from tutor support, along with [letscodemore.com](https://www.letscodemore.com/blog/how-to-add-date-input-widget-in-django-forms/), I was able to implement DateInput & TimeInput.

### Content
Soul Base Pilates Studio - My sister's pilates studio based in Iowa, USA.

### Technologies Used
LucidChart = ERD
Figma = Wireframes
Django = Framework
HTML = mark up
CSS = styling
[Bootstrap 4.6](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/getting-started/download/) = styling
Python
JavaScript
VS Code = IDE (Integrated Development Environment)
Heroku = Deployment
GitHub = store project
Git = version control
[PostgresSQL from Code Institute](https://dbs.ci-dbs.net/) = Production database 
[TinyPNG](https://tinypng.com/) used to compress images
[Favicon generator](https://gauger.io/fonticon/)

### Media & Layout

## Acknowledgements
